# SQLab question

## Instalation of the plugin sqlquestion

The plugin needs to be installed by putting the contents of this directory to

    {your/moodle/dirroot}/question/type/

Afterwards, log in to your Moodle site as an admin and go to _Site administration >
Notifications_ to complete the installation.

## Instalation of the personalized quiz module

This plugin should replace the existing quiz plugin in your Moodle installation directory.
The location is:

    {your/moodle/dirroot}/mod/quiz

Download it from:

    <https://github.com/NikolayP12/quiz.git>

Moodle will not detect any changes because only an id field will have been added
in the questionnaire configuration section.

## License

2024 Nikolay <nikolaypn2002@gmail.com>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.
If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

## Purpose

The purpose of this "question type" plugin is to be used to create a bank of questions for the "SQLab" plugin.
These questions will be retrieved by the "SQLab" plugin from the id of the questionnaire to which
the created questions are associated.
In order to know the id of the questionnaires it is necessary to follow the steps of installation
of the custom questionnaire module, as explained above. The id of the questionnaire can be identified
in the configuration section of the created quiz, under the field that contains the quiz name,
the field can be found as "Quiz id".

## Configuration and Usage

Once the plugin is installed, you can start creating a SQLab question from the question bank.
Go to your _Course > Question bank_ and select the option to create a new question.
Choose 'SQLab question' from the list of question types.

Once you have started creating a new question you will have to enter information at least within the fields
specified as mandatory, the mandatory fields are marked and all have a help element with additional information
on what their purpose is.

When creating a SQLab question, you'll encounter the following fields:

- **Related Concepts**: Introduce the concepts that the student should understand before attempting the question.

- **Data**: Enter the SQL script or database context required for the question. This script will set up the necessary environment for the question. It has to be added as a SQL script.

- **Hint**: Provide any hints that might help the student answer the question. This field is optional and can be used to nudge students towards the correct answer without giving it away.

- **Result Data**: Input the expected result data generated by the correct SQL script. This will be used to validate the student's response.

- **Subjective Difficulty**: Indicate the perceived difficulty of the question from the educator's perspective.

- **Objective Difficulty**: Provide a more quantifiable measure of the question's difficulty.

- **Decrease Attempt**: Specify the amount by which the grade should decrease for each additional attempt a student makes.

- **Min Grade**: State the minimum grade that can be achieved by decrementing due to multiple attempts. This prevents the grade from falling below a certain threshold.

- **Solution**: Enter the correct solution for the SQL query. This field is mandatory, as it is required to validate the student's response. It has to be added as a SQL script.

## Support

For questions or issues regarding the SQLab question type, please send an email to the plugin maintainer at nikolaypn2002@gmail.com.
